1. 
Hornbæk says that self reported task performance (e.g. through questionnaires) can be unreliable or hard to use in different scenarios.
Participants answers could be influenced by a wide range of unwanted variables. While this is also true for objective measuring, objective measuring
gives better control over this variables.
In a study he found that self-reported perception did not correlate with actual measured outcomes.  

2.
A downside to research hypotheses is that they can drive the researcher towards a "hunting bias"; he then wants to prove his theories and 
probably ignores or oversees evidence that would force him to reject them. Hypotheses can also blind us from seeig other interessing findings,
so researchers should allways have an open mind when looking at their data. Furthermore there are more studies published that confirmed the hypothesis than
rejected it which may results from people not publishing studies with rejected ones. This could obstruct the progress in research because of the confirmation
bias it can cause. There are also many advantages when using hypotheses in studies. First of all, the use of them is strictly tied to the empiric theory. 
Since it is suggested to create a hypothesis before conducting a study, it can help the researcher to build a good design for his study. They can help to use earlier
work on a similar subject by sticking close to their hypothesis and only changing some variables. Hypotheses help to focus on research questions, and can help to 
define a clear result for a study.
To summarize: hypotheses are a great tool, but as allways: bring a open mind!

3.
In some examples it can be acceptable. They main goal for searching participants should always be to find people with the characteristics necessary to adress
the research question.
As long as the characteristics of the participants are able to give a generalizable result, you are good to go.
As advantage of informatic students you could name their gerneral tech affinity, which is searched for as characteristic in some studies.
Using such a clear defined participant group can also be a disadvantage, since they propaply have many traits in common, and that could break the gernalizability
of the studies results.
For example, it could be problematic to only use informatics student to make a user study for a new mobile phone ui design that aims to be useable by everyone.
Most likely informatics students will have a higher understanding of controlling the interface than the average user, and thus do not build a generalizable sample.
It could be ok to only use informatic students if you want to conduct a user study about a new mobile phone ui design which only targets people with a high tech affinity. 


